
You are a certified medical dietitian.

You will be given a multi-paragraph explanation of a rare disease based on clinical studies. From this, extract and return structured data in JSON format.

ðŸ›‘ DO NOT include any commentary or explanation.

You must strictly respond with a valid JSON object that matches **exactly** the following structure (no extra keys, no deviations):

{
  "avoid": ["..."],
  "substitute": ["..."],
  "nutrition_limit": {
    "protein": 0,
    "carbohydrates": 0,
    "fat": 0
  }
}

âš  Use your medical knowledge to estimate reasonable numeric limits if they are not directly stated. Base your values on clinical implications such as hypoglycemia risk, hepatic load, or metabolic burden.

Explanation:
"""1. J Proteome Res. 2025 Apr 15. doi: 10.1021/acs.jproteome.5c00166. Online ahead
of  print.

Advancing the Biochemical Understanding of Maple Syrup Urine Disease and the 
Impact of Liver Transplantation: A Pilot Study.

Fortis SP(1), Grier AL(1), Reisz JA(1), Dzieciatkowska M(1), Cendali FI(1), 
Kauffman V(2), Morton DH(2), D'Alessandro A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Colorado 
Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, Colorado 80045, United States.
(2)Central Pennsylvania Clinic, A Medical Home for Special Children and Adults, 
Belleville, Pennsylvania 17004, United States.

Maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) is a rare autosomal recessive metabolic 
disorder causing impaired branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) catabolism and 
systemic metabolic dysregulation. MSUD has an incidence of approximately 1 in 
185,000 U.S. births, with much higher prevalence in the Mennonite communities 
(up to 1 in 400 live births due to the c.1312T > A p.Tyr438Asn BCKDHA founder 
mutation). Using a multiomic approach integrating metabolomics, lipidomics, and 
proteomics, we analyzed blood samples from three patients on a BCAA-restricted 
diet (MSUDDR), two MSUD patients who received liver transplants (MSUDLT), and 
six healthy controls. Gene ontology analysis of integrated omics data confirmed 
systemic metabolic imbalances in MSUD, highlighting increases in glycolysis, 
oxidative phosphorylation, and purine metabolism. Lipidomic analysis revealed 
disruptions in sphingolipids and lysophosphatidylcholines, affecting signaling 
and membrane integrity. Liver transplantation corrected some abnormalities, but 
key metabolites and proteins remained altered. Proteomic analysis revealed 
significant alterations in redox homeostasis, energy metabolism, and 
cytoskeletal organization with partial recovery post-transplantation. 
Post-translational modifications indicated ongoing oxidative stress and immune 
activation in the MSUDLT group. Elevated levels of l-isoleucine, l-valine, and 
their ketoacids persisted post-transplant, correlating with impaired amino acid 
metabolism, lipid remodeling, and protein folding. These findings provide 
insights into MSUD-associated metabolic dysfunction and highlight potential 
therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.jproteome.5c00166
PMID: 40232068


2. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2025 Jan 7;38(3):299-304. doi: 
10.1515/jpem-2024-0542. Print 2025 Mar 26.

Acrodermatitis dysmetabolica: lessons from two pediatric cases.

Kahraman AB(1), Cosar MS(2), Dogan EE(3), ÃœnlÃ¼ Y(4), Ugur C(2), BagcÄ± Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Metabolism, Konya City Hospital, University of Health 
Sciences, Konya, TÃ¼rkiye.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Konya City Hospital, University of Health Sciences, 
Konya, TÃ¼rkiye.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Karatay University, Konya, TÃ¼rkiye.
(4)Clinic of Pathology, Konya City Hospital, University of Health Sciences, 
Konya, TÃ¼rkiye.

OBJECTIVES: Acrodermatitis dysmetabolica (AD) is a dermatologic manifestation 
associated with inherited metabolic disorders (IMDs), distinct from 
acrodermatitis enteropathica, which occurs solely due to zinc deficiency.
CASE PRESENTATION: This report presents two pediatric cases: a 30-month-old girl 
with maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) experiencing AD secondary to severe 
isoleucine deficiency due to a protein-restricted diet, showing improvement with 
dietary adjustments, and a 2.5-month-old boy infant with propionic acidemia (PA) 
who developed AD alongside septic shock, which progressed despite intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: These cases emphasize the importance of identifying AD in IMDs and 
the critical need for meticulous monitoring of amino acid levels, as 
deficiencies may lead to severe complications.

Â© 2025 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.

DOI: 10.1515/jpem-2024-0542
PMID: 39760321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Nutrients. 2024 Sep 18;16(18):3145. doi: 10.3390/nu16183145.

The Impact of Diet on Body Composition in a Cohort of Pediatric and Adult 
Patients with Maple Syrup Urine Disease.

Pretese R(1), Bonfanti C(1), Faraguna MC(1)(2), Fantasia M(1)(2), Crescitelli 
V(1), Barzaghi S(1), Botti M(3), Mezzanotti G(4), Gasperini S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Fondazione IRCCS San Gerardo dei Tintori, 20900 
Monza, Italy.
(2)Residency in Pediatrics, University of Milano Bicocca, 20126 Milano, Italy.
(3)Rare Disease Centre, Fondazione IRCCS San Gerardo dei Tintori, 20900 Monza, 
Italy.
(4)Deparment of Biology Applied to Nutrition Sciences, University of Milano 
Statale, 20122 Milano, Italy.

The treatment for Maple Syrup Urine Disease (MSUD) consists of a hypoproteic 
diet with integration therapy to limit leucine intake, ensuring adequate energy, 
macronutrients, and micronutrients to prevent catabolism and promote anabolism. 
We conducted a retrospective cross-sectional study at the Metabolic Rare Disease 
Unit, Fondazione IRCCS San Gerardo dei Tintori, Monza, Italy. Patients with MSUD 
who were over 3 years old, not treated with liver transplantation, and who 
provided written consent, were included. The study aimed to describe the dietary 
treatment of patients with MSUD, evaluate growth data, and analyze the effect of 
a low-protein and semi-synthetic diet on body composition. Data on height, 
weight, BMI, waist circumference, food intake, physical activity, and DEXA scans 
were collected. Thirteen subjects (11 classic MSUD, 2 intermediate MSUD) were 
included, of which 5 < 18 years old. Results indicated that patients with MSUD 
follow a balanced diet and have body compositions like healthy subjects in terms 
of fat and lean mass. A high incidence of osteopenia was observed from a young 
age, with a positive correlation between protein intake and lean mass and a 
negative correlation between BCAA-free mixture consumption and bone mineral 
density z-score. The study highlights the positive effects and potential 
consequences of the semi-synthetic diet on the body composition of patients with 
MSUD. A similar study involving all Italian metabolic centers treating MSUD is 
recommended.

DOI: 10.3390/nu16183145
PMCID: PMC11434745
PMID: 39339744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest."""
```

**JSON Object:**

```json
{
  "avoid": [],
  "substitute": [],
  "nutrition_limit": {
    "protein": 0,
    "carbohydrates": 0,
    "fat": 0
  }
}
```